2025.04.28
<Nguon: w3school.com>

JavaScript
framework: Express.js

What is JavaScript?
JavaScript is the programming language of the web.

What is used for?
update and change both HTML and CSS.
calculate, manipulate and validate data.

Why Study JavaScript?
JavaScript is one of the 3 languages all web developers must learn:
   1. HTML to define the content of web pages
   2. CSS to specify the layout of web pages
   3. JavaScript to program the behavior of web pages

Python
framework: Django

What is Python?
Python is a popular programming language. It was created by Guido van Rossum, and released in 1991.

What is used for?
web development (server-side),
software development,
mathematics,
system scripting.

Why Python?
Python works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc).
Python has a simple syntax similar to the English language.
Python has syntax that allows developers to write programs with fewer lines than some other programming languages.
Python runs on an interpreter system, meaning that code can be executed as soon as it is written. This means that prototyping can be very quick.
Python can be treated in a procedural way, an object-oriented way or a functional way.

C#
framework: ASP.NET Core

What is C#?
C# is pronounced "C-Sharp".
It is an object-oriented programming language created by Microsoft that runs on the .NET Framework.
C# has roots from the C family, and the language is close to other popular languages like C++ and Java.
The first version was released in year 2002. The latest version, C# 13, was released in November 2024.

What is used for?
Mobile applications
Desktop applications
Web applications
Web services
Web sites
Games
VR
Database applications
And much, much more!

Why Use C#?
It is one of the most popular programming languages in the world
It is easy to learn and simple to use
It has huge community support
C# is an object-oriented language which gives a clear structure to programs and allows code to be reused, lowering development costs
As C# is close to C, C++ and Java, it makes it easy for programmers to switch to C# or vice versa

Java
framework: Spring Boot

What is Java?
Java is a popular programming language, created in 1995.
It is owned by Oracle, and more than 3 billion devices run Java.

What is used for?
Mobile applications (specially Android apps)
Desktop applications
Web applications
Web servers and application servers
Games
Database connection
And much, much more!

Why Use Java?
Java works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc.)
It is one of the most popular programming languages in the world
It has a large demand in the current job market
It is easy to learn and simple to use
It is open-source and free
It is secure, fast and powerful
It has huge community support (tens of millions of developers)
Java is an object oriented language which gives a clear structure to programs and allows code to be reused, lowering development costs
As Java is close to C++ and C#, it makes it easy for programmers to switch to Java or vice versa

Ruby
framework: Ruby on Rails

What is Ruby?
Ruby is an open-source object-oriented scripting language invented in the mid-90s by Yukihiro Matsumoto.
Unlike languages such as C and C++, a scripting language doesn’t talk directly to hardware. It’s written to a text file and then parsed by an interpreter and turned into code. These programs are generally procedural in nature, meaning they are read from top to bottom.
Object-oriented languages, on the other hand, break out pieces of code into objects that can be created and used as needed. You can reuse these objects in other parts of the program, or even other applications.
Yukihiro wanted to create a scripting language that leveraged object-oriented programming and increase code reuse to help speed up development. And so the Ruby programming language was born, using simple language and syntax to handle data and logic to solve problems.

What is used for?
web servers, DevOps, and web scraping and crawling
when you add in the functionality of the Rails application framework, you can do even more, especially database-driven web applications.

Why Use Ruby?
The Ruby programming language is a highly portable general-purpose language that serves many purposes.
Ruby is great for building desktop applications, static websites, data processing services, and even automation tools. 

Go
framework: Gin

What is Go?
Go is a cross-platform, open source programming language
Go can be used to create high-performance applications
Go is a fast, statically typed, compiled language known for its simplicity and efficiency
Go was developed at Google by Robert Griesemer, Rob Pike, and Ken Thompson in 2007
Go's syntax is similar to C++

What is used for?
Web development (server-side)
Developing network-based programs
Developing cross-platform enterprise applications
Cloud-native development

Why Use Go?
Go is fun and easy to learn
Go has fast run time and compilation time
Go supports concurrency
Go has memory management
Go works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc.)

